Introduction:
In this project, I will be looking at car crash data for Chicago in order to build a classification model to detect hit and run accidents. The goal of this model is help analyze accidents and use the result to prevent crashes from happening .Since road safety is one of the big concerns the  classification model primarily focuses  on hit and run car accidents that resulted in injuries .Determining hit and run accidents can help the city to  take  appropriate measures prevent or reduce this accidents. 

Data Setup and Cleaning:
The Traffic Crashes data was downloaded from the open data source provided by Chicago Data Portal. The dataset contains all traffic crashes that were reported by the police within the city limits, going back to 2013. The data set also has a persons component that was not used in this porject but could be used if Persons involved in the crash can help in anyway. The  crash record ID and report number can be used to merge the 2 datasets.
The Traffic Crashes dataset contains a number of details related to the accident (49 to be exact).  A lot of the columns such as record no, data etc... was eliminnated since a lot if it was administrative data that we cant use. Some columns such as secondary cause , lane count among others were either dropped or consolidated based on the information prvided by other columns.  I was able to narrow it down to 23 features including primary contributory cause for the crash as determined by the officer on scene. There was about 90000 accidents that did not have a primary cause  or secondary cause listed which was unuable so it had to be removed. I removed causes that accounted for less than 1% of the data such as train accidents. Hit and Run accidents that were listed as unknowns were consoldiated as hit and run unknowns. I mostly focused on accidents that resulted in injuries from march 2013 to October 2020. which resulted in about 50000 accidents roughly 15% of the original dataset . The data required minor cleaning before proceeding to modelling. A link to the main dataset can be found here: https://data.cityofchicago.org/Transportation/Traffic-Crashes-Crashes/85ca-t3if

Data Exploration:
As mentioned earlier I decided to specifically look at the Hit and Runs that resulted in injuries. 
I first wanted to look at most occuring crash type and most occuring primary casue . The leading causes will be helpful inormation for the city to take appropriate  measures. The top 5 crash types accounted for 95% of the accidents and the top 5 causes accounted for more than 50% of the accidents. Hit and Run was the top occuring reason and failing to yield right of way was the most occuring type for injuries .In addition, I tooked at the occurence of hit and run accidents and injury resulting accidents by location and by the time of the day and there was no obvious pattern. Both followed the same pattern as the other accidents which was during peak commuter hours which makes sense because A higher number of cars on the road result in a higher number of accidents . Roads with posted speed limit of 30 mphhad the most injury resulting accidents (about 75%).

Data Modeling:
I Used a decision tree classifier to model and classify hit and run injury resulting accidents. There was some imbalance in classes as only about a fourth of the accidents were hit and run cases so i had to generate some synthetic data. I eliminated irrelevant features recursively from 21 to 19 and i was able to get the accuracy to 72%. Tuning the hyperparameter of the classifier I was able get the accuracy upto 79% . I further used meta estimators like random forests and bagging classifier and got the accuracy upto about 85%. 

Conclusions and Future Work:
Based on the data I would recommend higher surveillance or the roads to remedy Hit and run cases especially during peak hours.Roads with posted speed limit of 30mph should have more speed-regulators or policing to make these roads safer. In order to reduce rear end accidents the city should take speed inhibiting/breaking measures. .For Future work we would like to focus more on the top 5 types of accidents as they account for more than 95% of all accidents.I would also like to conduct a study by sectioning the city into smaller zones to tailor the recommendations by counties or towns.
